---
layout: post
title: "MathJax"
categories: general
author:
 - Riley Nitschke
---
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/ncase/nutshell/nutshell.js"></script>
<script>
Nutshell.setOptions({
    startOnLoad: true, // Start Nutshell on load? (default: true)
    lang: 'en', // Language (default: 'en', which is English)
    dontEmbedHeadings: true, // If 'true', removes the "embed this as a nutshell" option on headings
});
</script>
<script src="https://polyfill.io/v3/polyfill.min.js?features=es6"></script>
<script id="MathJax-script" async src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-chtml.js"></script>

## Introduction
MathJax is a "Javascript display engine" for mathematics, that works in all browsers. Integration is as simple as adding two lines of html code to the beginning of a webpage, and usage is as easy as inputting LaTeX equations into the text within the standard math delimiters. If you aren't familiar with LaTeX equations, you can check out [this article](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Mathematical_expressions) on mathematical equations in LaTeX.

## Examples
MathJax supports both inline and display mathematics, and examples are given following, as well as the source code.

For instance, if I was talking about the quadratic formula, I could talk about how if I have a quadratic equation of the form \(ax^2+bx+c\), I can find the roots of the equation using the following equation.
$$x=\frac{-b\pm\sqrt{b^2-4ac}}{2a}$$
The code for these equations were simply `\(ax^2+bx+c\)` and `$$x=\frac{-b\pm\sqrt{b^2-4ac}}{2a}$$`.

This is, however, on the simpler end of equations that LaTeX and MathJax can render. 

$$\left(\sum_{k=0}^{\infty}\left(\frac{3}{4} \right )^k \right )^5-\left(\left(\left(\lim_{x\to\infty}\frac{32x^3+5x}{4x^3-10x}-\left(\cos^2x+\sin^2x \right ) \right ) \right )+\lim_{x\to 0}\frac{e^{17x}-1}{x} \right )$$

In case you want to see the [:source code](#what) for that...

## :x what
`\left(\sum_{k=0}^{\infty}\left(\frac{3}{4} \right )^k \right )^5-\left(\left(\left(\lim_{x\to\infty}\frac{32x^3+5x}{4x^3-10x}-\left(\cos^2x+\sin^2x \right ) \right ) \right )+\lim_{x\to\0}\frac{e^{17x}-1}{x} \right )`

## Overall...
MathJax is incredibly powerful, and makes for much nicer looking equations, at the cost of a bit of learning related to understanding LaTeX source code. I would say it is worth it, however, as it will make things much easier to understand for students wanting to learn mathematical concepts.